Wipro -
Wipro Limited is a leading global information technology, consulting and business process services company. It harnesses the power of cognitive computing, hyper-automation, robotics, cloud, analytics and emerging technologies to help their clients adapt to the digital world and make them successful. A company recognized globally for its comprehensive portfolio of services, strong commitment to sustainability and good corporate citizenship, they have over 160,000 dedicated employees serving clients across six continents.

Spirit of Wipro
The Spirit of Wipro is the core of Wipro. These are their Values. It is about who they are. It is their character. It is reflected consistently in all of their behavior. The Spirit is deeply rooted in the unchanging essence of Wipro. But it also embraces what they must aspire to be. It is the indivisible synthesis of the four values. The Spirit is a beacon. It is what gives them direction and a clear sense of purpose.
- Be passionate about clients' success
- Treat each person with respect
- Be global and responsible
- Unyeilding integrity in everything we do

The overall objectives of operational strategy are
- Maximise Quality
- Maximise Quantity
- Minimise Time
- Minimise Cost

The operational strategy of an organisation is cumulative of multiple strategies:
- Corporate Strategy
	Mission Statement
	The Spirit of Wipro is the core of Wipro. These are our Values. It is about who we are. It is our character. It is reflected consistently in all our behavior. The Spirit is deeply rooted in the unchanging essence of Wipro. But it also embraces what we must aspire to be. It is the indivisible synthesis of the four values. The Spirit is a beacon. It is what gives us direction and a clear sense of purpose. It energizes us and is the touchstone for all that we do.

	Vision Statement
	Contribute for global e-society, where a wide range of information is being exchanged beyond time and space over global networks, which breaks down the boundaries among countries, regions and cultures, allowing individuals to take part in various social activities in an impartial, secure way. Continous effort to enhance people's lifestyle and quality by means of developing new technology in wireless communication.

	Values
	Be passionate about clients' success
	Be global and responsible
	Treat each person with respect
	Unyielding integrity in everything we do
	
	Environment
	IT has a huge opportunity to grow along with threats. There are number of competitors.
	Competitors include IT services giant like TCS, Infosys who hold the major market in terms of service delivery.
	<graph>
	
- Product Plans
	Wipro is serving majorly the IT domain in terms of service delivery.
	Seeing the market trend and customer requirements for AI, it has initiated a separate business unit which focuses on Data Analytics and AI. 
	However the highest revenue is from BFSI services, but is also progressing significantly in other domains.
	Automation is the main focus of the IT industry to maintain the quality in less time and cost. Introduction of RPA and AI in several projects has enabled the organisation to achieve the maximum of service delivery in terms of low cost and high quality.
	
- Product Life-cycle
	In a competitive market like Semiconductors, Wipro provides clients with PLM to bring focus to innovation and maximize product profitability. The solution develops synergies between ideation, product design, change management and compliance. 
	Wipro’s PLM services assure PLM program success by embedding domain expertise and technical capabilities, enabling companies to enhance innovation, reduce time to market and facilitate faster PLM adoption:

	Implementation
	PLM implementations often fail to meet project timelines and suffer budget over-runs. Wipro, through its immense functional and technical expertise in different PLM suite of products ensure that projects meet business goals and end deliverables exceed client expectations.
	
	Sustenance
	Wipro leverages its NextGen Managed Services capabilities to run and support PLM applications 24*7 at enhanced service levels. Wipro’s Sustenance services assist clients introduce operational efficiencies, improve application performance and reduce TCO, eventually realizing more value from the PLM environment.
	
	Optimization/Transformation
	Wipro proactively looks for improvement opportunities related to cost reduction and assists clients with their transformation projects and hence realize 100% capability fulfillment. The key transformational services include PLM Consolidation, New PLM Module Value Identification, PLM Program for Mergers & Acquisitions (M&A) and Digital PLM enablement.
	
	Cloud Enablement
	PLM on Cloud is an emerging trend that brings agility and flexibility to PLM operations. Wipro offers cloud enablement through an IaaS hosted model supported by Wipro Cloud Command Center, leveraging strategic partnerships with AWS and Azure, thereby helping clients realize cost savings.

	IP Management for Collaborative IC Design
	Wipro’s expertise in IP management establishes secure environments to store, re-use and share IP between customers, design partners and third party IP providers.

	Bug and Change Management
	The solution deploys a global closed-loop issue tracking and corrective action system to speed up resolution arising from of product design changes.

	Integrated Hardware and Software Product Development
	A PLM-ALM integration framework defines and drives hardware and software development synchronization to ensure product traceability and quality. 
	
- Competitive Priorities
	Wipro’s number-one priority will be top-line growth. The company will target investments that boost its geographic presence, vertical specialization, and productivity and platforms. Continental Europe continues to hold significant potential for Wipro, given outsourcing's infancy in the region and the market's increasing adoption of an outsourcing model. We think Germany is an area of particular focus for Wipro and believe management will look for inorganic growth opportunities in the country (Wipro's Cellent AG acquisition is a recent example). 
	
	In a similar vein to Wipro’s development of its market-leading energy and utilities segment, we expect the company to supplement its organic growth in banking, insurance, healthcare, and manufacturing via acquisitions that broaden its scale and deepen its specialization (Wipro's HealthPlan Services acquisition is another good example here). 
	
	Economic Moat - Narrow 
	High switching costs underlie Wipro's narrow economic moat. The company has decades of industry experience and a trove of loyal customers that rely on the firm to provide mission-critical business processes and IT services. Such mission-critical services allow for a deep understanding of clients' intricacies, and as a result, customers are reluctant to switch between vendors, as it could cause significant business disruption. Notably, Wipro's revenue from repeat business traditionally hovers around 97%-99%, supporting our view that the firm benefits from high switching costs. The firm's broad global delivery capabilities, combined with its ability to offer myriad integrated services (such as BPO services, application services, and infrastructure services), set it apart from smaller rivals and help the company attract marquee global clients. In fact, Wipro has more than 1,200 global clients, of which 150 are Fortune 500 companies. 
	
	Fair Value Estimate – Rs 650 
	After rolling our model forward one year, our FVE is Rs 650. Our financial model implies forward fiscal-year price/earnings of 17.5 times, enterprise value/EBITDA of 13 times, and a free cash flow yield of 5%. We expect Wipro to increase its revenue around 8.7% per year (in Indian rupee terms) over the next five years as it remains focused on top-line growth. We think the firm will supplement its organic growth in core markets such as energy, finance, manufacturing, and healthcare with acquisitions that enhance its industry expertise, skill sets, and global presence. 
	In terms of geographies, the European market is an obvious growth opportunity for Wipro, given the region's increasing willingness to adopt an outsourcing business model and an underpenetrated marketplace. We believe the firm will seek to increase its presence in Europe, and we expect it to use mergers and acquisitions to achieve this. We forecast a modest improvement in operating margins over the next five years (an approximate 100-basis-point improvement) after Wipro's divestment of its lower-margin consumer care and lighting, infrastructure engineering, and other businesses. 
	In addition, a greater focus on automation, process simplification, workforce utilization, and better acquisition integration is expected to help counter yearly wage inflation and reinvestment requirements. 
	
	Risk 
	The IT services industry is highly competitive and constantly changing. Wipro needs to continually reinvest in new innovative service offerings in order to remain relevant in the marketplace. Employee attrition and utilization are also metrics that need to be managed closely, as these measures can have a notable impact on the firm's operating performance. Any detrimental change to U.S. immigration law could inflate the cost of Wipro's global delivery model, given the company's use of visas such as the H-1B. Meanwhile, a large appreciation in the rupee against the U.S. dollar would have a negative impact on Wipro's cost base. Also, negative movements in GDP and global IT spending would have a detrimental effect on the company. 
	
	Stewardship – Standard 
	We rate Wipro’s equity stewardship as Standard. Chairman Azim Premji, who is widely regarded as one of the most influential business leaders in the world, has led Wipro since the late 1960s. Premji holds approximately 75% of the company's outstanding shares. Despite his large controlling stake, we think his shareholder-friendly record should hearten investors. Premji has received numerous accolades for his ethical and fair business practices and commitment to societal issues, such as public education. 
	TK Kurien, Wipro's former CEO and current board member, stepped aside on Feb. 1, 2016, to make way for new CEO Abidali Z. Neemuchwala, who is seen as a visionary around as-a-service products and services that should help Wipro adjust to the transforming digital IT services market. With his extensive experience in the industry, we think Neemuchwala is an appropriate leader for Wipro. 
	Acquisitions will continue to play an important role for Wipro as management looks to further develop its domain expertise, geographic presence, and global delivery capabilities. In the past three years Wipro completed several acquisitions (approximately INR 54 billion has been spent) in global oil and gas information technology, mortgage due diligence, and risk management services. Management has an internal margin band that it aims to maintain (the operating margin has usually hovered around 18%-20%). Still, Wipro has highlighted some key areas where it will not cut back on investment, such as sales and marketing, consulting, and IP development associated with process automation.

Source: https://www.morningstar.in/posts/40723/wipro-2.aspx
